{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1187\cocoasubrtf340
{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;\f1\fswiss\fcharset0 ArialMT;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red195\green212\blue212;\red3\green5\blue6;\red26\green26\blue26;
\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\listtable{\list\listtemplateid1\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{disc\}}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid1\'01\uc0\u8226 ;}{\levelnumbers;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listname ;}\listid1}
{\list\listtemplateid2\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{disc\}}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid101\'01\uc0\u8226 ;}{\levelnumbers;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{hyphen\}}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid102\'01\uc0\u8259 ;}{\levelnumbers;}\fi-360\li1440\lin1440 }{\listname ;}\listid2}
{\list\listtemplateid3\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{disc\}}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid201\'01\uc0\u8226 ;}{\levelnumbers;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{hyphen\}}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid202\'01\uc0\u8259 ;}{\levelnumbers;}\fi-360\li1440\lin1440 }{\listname ;}\listid3}
{\list\listtemplateid4\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{disc\}}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid301\'01\uc0\u8226 ;}{\levelnumbers;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{hyphen\}}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid302\'01\uc0\u8259 ;}{\levelnumbers;}\fi-360\li1440\lin1440 }{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{hyphen\}}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid303\'01\uc0\u8259 ;}{\levelnumbers;}\fi-360\li2160\lin2160 }{\listname ;}\listid4}
{\list\listtemplateid5\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{disc\}}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid401\'01\uc0\u8226 ;}{\levelnumbers;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listname ;}\listid5}
{\list\listtemplateid6\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{disc\}}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid501\'01\uc0\u8226 ;}{\levelnumbers;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{hyphen\}}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid502\'01\uc0\u8259 ;}{\levelnumbers;}\fi-360\li1440\lin1440 }{\listname ;}\listid6}}
{\*\listoverridetable{\listoverride\listid1\listoverridecount0\ls1}{\listoverride\listid2\listoverridecount0\ls2}{\listoverride\listid3\listoverridecount0\ls3}{\listoverride\listid4\listoverridecount0\ls4}{\listoverride\listid5\listoverridecount0\ls5}{\listoverride\listid6\listoverridecount0\ls6}}
\margl1011\margr1011\margb1445\margt1011\vieww14000\viewh16000\viewkind1\viewscale215
\deftab720
\pard\pardeftab720\sl440\sa320

\f0\fs32 \cf2 \cb3 Make Awesome Games with .js: Compiled Javascript for Native Desktop and Mobile 3D Applications\
So, what if you could code in .js to create games that run at 60 FPS -- and in 3D, cross-platform? This talk will focus on Unity Javascript, outlining the parts that are straight-on normal .js and the bits that aren\'92t, with an emphasis on the Unity Physics engine API and 3D framework. By the end of this talk, we\'92ll have hacked together a simple 3D game that runs on iOS, Android, PC and Mac, and also in the browser via Flash or Chrome NaCl.\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardeftab720\pardirnatural

\fs24 \cf0 \cb1 \page \
\
Today: Make an Awesome Game with .js / that runs everywhere by itself\
\
Follow-along and Game-off! [QR]\
\
- Assumed: You have Unity 3.x or Unity 4 if you want to deploy to Linux\
- Grab the Tutorial folder to follow along the live coding session @ \
	{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://github.com/yosun/jsconf-talks/tree/master/AngryNerds"}}{\fldrslt http://bit.ly/angrynerdsgithub}}\
	particularly this folder:\
	{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://github.com/yosun/jsconf-talks/tree/master/AngryNerds/Assets/Tutorial"}}{\fldrslt /tree/master/AngryNerds/Assets/Tutorial}}\
\
- The \'93Angry Nerds Simulator\'94\
	- an unimaginative game from the techniques I\'92ll go through in the next hour\
	- 6 hour hack for Github Gameoff @ {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://github.com/github/game-off-2012"}}{\fldrslt https://github.com/github/game-off-2012}}\
\
\
Angry Birds - \'93By the elements\'94 \
\
\pard\tx219\tx713\tx1123\tx1684\tx2246\tx2808\tx3369\tx3931\tx4492\tx5054\tx5616\tx6177\tx6739\pardeftab720\li713\fi-714\pardirnatural
\ls1\ilvl0\cf0 {\listtext	\'95	}classic one was a trajectory engine\
{\listtext	\'95	}the new ones are more generalized. \
{\listtext	\'95	}it\'92s ultimately about the birds vs the pigs, one eliminating the other. \
\pard\tx560\tx1123\tx1684\tx2246\tx2808\tx3369\tx3931\tx4492\tx5054\tx5616\tx6177\tx6739\pardeftab720\pardirnatural
\cf0 \
Angry Nerds \
\pard\tx219\tx713\tx1123\tx1684\tx2246\tx2808\tx3369\tx3931\tx4492\tx5054\tx5616\tx6177\tx6739\pardeftab720\li713\fi-714\pardirnatural
\ls2\ilvl0\cf0 {\listtext	\'95	}nerds vs bulls\
{\listtext	\'95	}let\'92s try a new directional variation\
\pard\tx940\tx1440\tx1684\tx2246\tx2808\tx3369\tx3931\tx4492\tx5054\tx5616\tx6177\tx6739\pardeftab720\li1440\fi-1440\pardirnatural
\ls2\ilvl1\cf0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8259 	}sideway-scrollers done to death\
{\listtext	\uc0\u8259 	}particles in a box.. vertical. infinite square well \page Thoughts on what to talk about... [QR]\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardeftab720\pardirnatural
\cf0 - game programming theory. too abstract. what level to start at?\
- showcase of awesome games. too vicarious. window-shopping isn\'92t fun.\
- show off cool 3D stuff... too off the wall for most of you.\
 \
- goal is to have *all* of you leave with a game today. \
	- quick techniques to create common game elements\
	- Crash Course - pros and caveat:  \
		You will be able to code a game in Unity 
\f1\fs20 \cf4 \cb5 \uc0\u8594 
\f0\fs24 \cf0 \cb1  (that\'92s fast and super-crossplatform) \
		You will likely abuse the expressive nature of Unity Javascript. \uc0\u8232 \
\page Confessions. Clarifications?\
\
- Unity Javascript is not Javascript. It\'92s \'93JS-ly\'94-C# .NET disguised as ECMAScript. \
	- We are only talking about one form of compiled \'93Javascript\'94 using Unity... \
		Sorry: Chakra, SpiderMonkey, SquirrelFish, Carakan...\
	- jQuery will not help you at all...\
- This presentation is neither impress.js nor prezi. It\'92s oldskool Flash/Actionscript! \
\
- Despite what was advertised, we will spend most of the hour making a 2D game. But, it\'92s actually in 3D. And the same techniques apply to 3D.\
	- lots of excellent 3D game tutorials with Unity, few 2D ones\
	- keep it to a feasible-comparable benchmark from regular javascript \page \strike \strikec0 Unity JS isn\'92t really JS JS... \
\pard\tx940\tx1440\tx1684\tx2246\tx2808\tx3369\tx3931\tx4492\tx5054\tx5616\tx6177\tx6739\pardeftab720\li1440\fi-1440\pardirnatural
\ls3\ilvl1\cf0 \strikec0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8259 	}It\'92s another dialect of ECMAscript\
{\listtext	\uc0\u8259 	}is C# with a slightly different syntax. \strike0\striked0 \
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1684\tx2246\tx2808\tx3369\tx3931\tx4492\tx5054\tx5616\tx6177\tx6739\pardeftab720\pardirnatural
\cf0 \
Differences between Unity JS and JS\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardeftab720\pardirnatural
\cf0 \
\pard\tx219\tx713\tx1123\tx1684\tx2246\tx2808\tx3369\tx3931\tx4492\tx5054\tx5616\tx6177\tx6739\pardeftab720\li713\fi-714\pardirnatural
\ls4\ilvl0\cf0 {\listtext	\'95	}Variables\
\pard\tx940\tx1440\tx1684\tx2246\tx2808\tx3369\tx3931\tx4492\tx5054\tx5616\tx6177\tx6739\pardeftab720\li1440\fi-1440\pardirnatural
\ls4\ilvl1\cf0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8259 	}var keyword required for all variables.\
{\listtext	\uc0\u8259 	}type-inferenced, explicitly-typed preferred\
\pard\tx1660\tx2160\tx2246\tx2808\tx3369\tx3931\tx4492\tx5054\tx5616\tx6177\tx6739\pardeftab720\li2160\fi-2160\pardirnatural
\ls4\ilvl2\cf0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8259 	}var i = 5; // inferenced \
{\listtext	\uc0\u8259 	}var i:int = 5; // explicit \
{\listtext	\uc0\u8259 	}GetComponent.<Type>() // explicit instance of a script\
{\listtext	\uc0\u8259 	}GetComponent.<Type>() as Type // even more explicit...\
\pard\tx219\tx713\tx1123\tx1684\tx2246\tx2808\tx3369\tx3931\tx4492\tx5054\tx5616\tx6177\tx6739\pardeftab720\li713\fi-714\pardirnatural
\ls4\ilvl0\cf0 {\listtext	\'95	}It\'92s not Class-less!\
\pard\tx940\tx1440\tx1684\tx2246\tx2808\tx3369\tx3931\tx4492\tx5054\tx5616\tx6177\tx6739\pardeftab720\li1440\fi-1440\pardirnatural
\ls4\ilvl1\cf0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8259 	}each script file is a class\
{\listtext	\uc0\u8259 	}you can also declare a class anywhere, or subclass\
{\listtext	\uc0\u8259 	}everything is by default public unless you add a private\
\pard\tx219\tx713\tx1123\tx1684\tx2246\tx2808\tx3369\tx3931\tx4492\tx5054\tx5616\tx6177\tx6739\pardeftab720\li713\fi-714\pardirnatural
\ls4\ilvl0\cf0 {\listtext	\'95	}Physics, Rendering API, asset-import\
{\listtext	\'95	}Coroutines... C#, .NET libraries\
{\listtext	\'95	}Compilation into .NET assemblies, usually via JIT but AOT compile for iOS\page \
{\listtext	\'95	}01. A Bouncing Ball\
{\listtext	\'95	}\
{\listtext	\'95	}make it bouncy\
{\listtext	\'95	} collider.material.bounciness=1f;\
{\listtext	\'95	}\
{\listtext	\'95	}make its motion affected by PhysX\
{\listtext	\'95	} GameObject.AddComponent.<Rigidbody>();\
{\listtext	\'95	}\
{\listtext	\'95	}affected by gravity\
{\listtext	\'95	} rigidbody.useGravity=true;\
{\listtext	\'95	}\
{\listtext	\'95	}\
{\listtext	\'95	}Constrain it to 2D - rigidbody.constraints = RigidbodyConstraints.FreezeRotationX | RigidbodyConstraints.FreezeRotationY | RigidbodyConstraints.FreezePositionZ;\
{\listtext	\'95	} \
{\listtext	\'95	}hide the collider mesh. renderer.enabled=false;\
{\listtext	\'95	}\
{\listtext	\'95	}examine the gameobject structure. a billboard is placed in the sphere, and is revealed when sphere collider mesh is disabled.\
{\listtext	\'95	}\page 02. Pause Gravity: Built-in GUI Button Interaction _ | \'93whose gravity you control -\'94\
{\listtext	\'95	}\
{\listtext	\'95	}\
{\listtext	\'95	}A button is a conditional inside OnGUI, if pressed the continue evaluates as true\
{\listtext	\'95	}\
{\listtext	\'95	}boolean to turn gravity on/off\
{\listtext	\'95	}\
{\listtext	\'95	}MoveTo, in case we stopped when the ball is rebounding (and disappears) rigidbody.isKinematic allows direct modification of transforms (suspends motion from being affected by PhysX)\page 03. Useful built-in event functions - (in diagram form) | \'93drifts by the force,\'94\
{\listtext	\'95	}\
{\listtext	\'95	}Awake() - get the reference to a component named RandColors\
{\listtext	\'95	}\
{\listtext	\'95	}Start() // sets initial stuff\
\pard\tx940\tx1440\tx1684\tx2246\tx2808\tx3369\tx3931\tx4492\tx5054\tx5616\tx6177\tx6739\pardeftab720\li1440\fi-1440\pardirnatural
\ls4\ilvl1\cf0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8259 	}transforms smaller. finds camera.\
\pard\tx219\tx713\tx1123\tx1684\tx2246\tx2808\tx3369\tx3931\tx4492\tx5054\tx5616\tx6177\tx6739\pardeftab720\li713\fi-714\pardirnatural
\ls4\ilvl0\cf0 {\listtext	\'95	}\
{\listtext	\'95	}Update() // called once per frame\
\pard\tx940\tx1440\tx1684\tx2246\tx2808\tx3369\tx3931\tx4492\tx5054\tx5616\tx6177\tx6739\pardeftab720\li1440\fi-1440\pardirnatural
\ls4\ilvl1\cf0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8259 	}arrowkeys move camera up and down infinite well\
\pard\tx219\tx713\tx1123\tx1684\tx2246\tx2808\tx3369\tx3931\tx4492\tx5054\tx5616\tx6177\tx6739\pardeftab720\li713\fi-714\pardirnatural
\ls4\ilvl0\cf0 {\listtext	\'95	}\
{\listtext	\'95	}FixedUpdate() // used when applying PhysX forces\
\pard\tx940\tx1440\tx1684\tx2246\tx2808\tx3369\tx3931\tx4492\tx5054\tx5616\tx6177\tx6739\pardeftab720\li1440\fi-1440\pardirnatural
\ls4\ilvl1\cf0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8259 	}add the drift force\page 04. \strike \strikec0 Detecting where the user\'92s mouse/finger is touching the rest of the scene \strike0\striked0  Pointing in this world | \'93cast a ray from the screen,\'94\
\pard\tx219\tx713\tx1123\tx1684\tx2246\tx2808\tx3369\tx3931\tx4492\tx5054\tx5616\tx6177\tx6739\pardeftab720\li713\fi-714\pardirnatural
\ls4\ilvl0\cf0 {\listtext	\'95	}\
{\listtext	\'95	}RaycastHit and traversing its components\
{\listtext	\'95	}\
{\listtext	\'95	}\
{\listtext	\'95	}\
{\listtext	\'95	}[image screen finger]\
{\listtext	\'95	}\
{\listtext	\'95	}\
{\listtext	\'95	}\
{\listtext	\'95	}\
{\listtext	\'95	}Input.GetMouseButtonDown(0) - \
{\listtext	\'95	}(touch equivalent) Input.GetTouch(0).phase == TouchPhase.Began\
{\listtext	\'95	}\
{\listtext	\'95	}\
{\listtext	\'95	}\
{\listtext	\'95	}Unity\'92s \'93Dom hierarchy\'94\
{\listtext	\'95	}\
{\listtext	\'95	}GameObject.Find(\'93[insert gameobject name]\'94); // except $(\'91[insert gameobject name]\'92) isn\'92t allowed\
{\listtext	\'95	}Each gameobject has its own transform\
{\listtext	\'95	}Customize each gameobject by adding more components\page 05 Touch to instantiate | \'93to clone an object\'94\
{\listtext	\'95	}\
{\listtext	\'95	}\
{\listtext	\'95	}\
{\listtext	\'95	}\
\pard\tx219\tx713\tx1123\tx1684\tx2246\tx2808\tx3369\tx3931\tx4492\tx5054\tx5616\tx6177\tx6739\pardeftab720\li713\fi-714\pardirnatural
\ls5\ilvl0\cf0 Wait - don\'92t run the script yet... whenever you mouseover, it currently clones one object per frame @ ~60fps. add in some stoppers\
\
Input.GetMouseButtonDown(0) - \
(touch equivalent) Input.GetTouch(0).phase == TouchPhase.Began\page 06 OnCollision and collision states | \'93it becomes sentient of others.\'94\
\
\page 07 Score singleton\
\
- single static value\
\
- advantages \
	don\'92t have to drag it onto an object\page These are all the elements you need to create a basic Angry-Birds-like game. \page \
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardeftab720\pardirnatural
\cf0 \
Transitioning to 3D\
\pard\tx219\tx713\tx1123\tx1684\tx2246\tx2808\tx3369\tx3931\tx4492\tx5054\tx5616\tx6177\tx6739\pardeftab720\li713\fi-714\pardirnatural
\ls6\ilvl0\cf0 {\listtext	\'95	}Remember that we started with a spherical ball collider, then turned off the mesh renderer, to reveal just a single billboard sprite\
{\listtext	\'95	}Remove the 2D Constraints\
{\listtext	\'95	}Cameras\
\pard\tx940\tx1440\tx1684\tx2246\tx2808\tx3369\tx3931\tx4492\tx5054\tx5616\tx6177\tx6739\pardeftab720\li1440\fi-1440\pardirnatural
\ls6\ilvl1\cf0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8259 	}Ortho vs Pers\
\pard\tx220\tx720\tx1120\tx1684\tx2246\tx2808\tx3369\tx3931\tx4492\tx5054\tx5616\tx6177\tx6739\pardeftab720\li720\fi-720\pardirnatural
\ls6\ilvl0\cf0 {\listtext	\'95	}Add a third component to position vectors...\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardeftab720\pardirnatural
\cf0 \
\
Isomorphisms\
}